In this lecture, we take a look at Wild Oats.
So what's our while loops?
A one loop is a programming language conditional iterative statement.
This means the code will loop continuously while checking for a certain condition and will execute the
code within the loop as long as those conditions are met.
For example, imagine you have five roses in your hand, and every time you pass a person in the street,
you hand them a rose.
When you run out of roses, you stop handing them out.
This is, in a way, a conditional, iterative statement.
You continue to hand out roses as long as they are roses to hand out.
So let's see an example.
So in Eclipse, I'm going to simply copy and paste the class in the last lecture hall in this one L
12 for lecture 12 and I'm going to give it a name of while late.
Like so.
Then I'm going to open up the class and simply remove the code from the last lecture.
So the first thing I'm going to do is I'm going to create an INT variable and I'm going to call this
int variable rose count and it's going to equal the value of five.
I'm then going to write a while loop, so I'm going to use while and then in brackets I'm going to declare
the variable name.
So rows count.
And I'm going to use a condition.
So this means not.
Equal zero.
And then I'm going to create some braces like so.
So what is is doing is is he is getting the value of his count, which is currently five.
And he's checking to see this is a condition which means not equal to the value of zero.
So if it doesn't equal the value zero, then run the code inside these braces.
So inside the braces, I'm going through my system.
Thoughts out, thoughts, print, end and in brackets.
I'm going to write.
There are.
Then I'm going to include the variable rose counts in this.
Roses remain in.
So you haven't seen me doing this training here.
Within the system, the prince out but also in is is creating.
This is a string.
So there are there's going to output.
There are takes in the console.
Then by using the plus symbols, I'm able to include the variable.
So I'm using Rose Councilor.
It's going to pass the value of Rose Count each time is System.out.println.
And then the second plus sign then allows me to add another string value in now.
So it's going to print out.
There are five roses remaining and it's going to run again and again and again.
But I expect this to decrease.
So after that line, I am going to do rose count, minus, minus and a semicolon.
So this is the opposite of what we used in the for loop.
So in the loop, if you remember I used A-plus plus two increment.
I'm using rose count minus minus the decrement.
So what this means is each time this code runs, it's going to take one away from this value.
So hopefully that makes sense and I expect this wisely to stop executing only when this.
Equals zero.
So if rows count doesn't equal zero.
They don't expect this code to run.
If Rose Count does equal zero, then this condition is no longer true.
And so I expect it to stop executing.
So let me save this and try running it.
And you can see that on the first line.
It started with five roses.
And then what happened was this line here subtracted one away from this value, and then it ran a next
time.
Hence why four roses were remaining and it continued until there was only one rows remain.
And then once there was one rose of remaining, it tried to subtract him.
One more change in this two zero.
And because this condition is no longer met, this code did didn't execute.
So I hope that made sense here.
It's a little bit to take in, but hopefully you gathered the main parts of what I was trying to explain.
So thank you again for watching.
And I will speak to you in the next lecture.